README.md, before:


CotEditor
=============================

CotEditor is a lightweight plain-text editor for macOS.

- __Requirement__: macOS 10.12.2 Sierra or later
- __Web Site__: <https://coteditor.com>
- __Mac App Store__: <https://itunes.apple.com/app/coteditor/id1024640650?ls=1>

<img src="screenshot@2x.png" width="750"/>



Source Code
-----------------------------

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/coteditor/CotEditor.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/coteditor/CotEditor)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/coteditor/CotEditor.svg)](https://github.com/coteditor/CotEditor/releases/latest)

CotEditor is a pure document-based Cocoa application written in Swift.


### Development Environment

- macOS 10.14 Mojave
- Xcode 10.1
- Swift 4.2
- Sandbox enabled



How to Build
-----------------------------

1. `git submodule update --init`
2. Update frameworks (you can skip this process if you only wanna build).
    1. `carthage update --platform macOS`
    2. Build Sparkle's XPCs by running "Sparkle XPCs" scheme in CotEditor.xcworkspace
3. Open CotEditor.xcworkspace in Xcode.
4. Build.



License
-----------------------------

© 2005-2009 nakamuxu,
© 2011, 2014 usami-k,
© 2013-2019 1024jp.

The source code is distributed under the terms of the __Apache License, Version 2.0__. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Add license about image resources (#846)

README.md, after:


CotEditor
=============================

CotEditor is a lightweight plain-text editor for macOS.

- __Requirement__: macOS 10.12.2 Sierra or later
- __Web Site__: <https://coteditor.com>
- __Mac App Store__: <https://itunes.apple.com/app/coteditor/id1024640650?ls=1>

<img src="screenshot@2x.png" width="750"/>



Source Code
-----------------------------

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/coteditor/CotEditor.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/coteditor/CotEditor)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/coteditor/CotEditor.svg)](https://github.com/coteditor/CotEditor/releases/latest)

CotEditor is a pure document-based Cocoa application written in Swift.


### Development Environment

- macOS 10.14 Mojave
- Xcode 10.1
- Swift 4.2
- Sandbox enabled



How to Build
-----------------------------

1. `git submodule update --init`
2. Update frameworks (you can skip this process if you only wanna build).
    1. `carthage update --platform macOS`
    2. Build Sparkle's XPCs by running "Sparkle XPCs" scheme in CotEditor.xcworkspace
3. Open CotEditor.xcworkspace in Xcode.
4. Build.



License
-----------------------------

© 2005-2009 nakamuxu,
© 2011, 2014 usami-k,
© 2013-2019 1024jp.

The source code is licensed under the terms of the __Apache License, Version 2.0__. The image resources are licensed under the terms of the [__Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License__](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/). See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
